in rala many Palestinians were marching
in support of Hamas military's operation
Nita Ibrahim is there in the occupied
West
Bank some of the chants in the protest
here that has been walking in the
streets of ramala are calling for
National Unity for Palestinian factions
to reunite and launch more attacks
against Israeli targets we're heating
Palestinians here also praising Hamas
saying that Israel only understands the
language of for people here were telling
me that they feel that they've been left
alone by the world and that they only
have themselves to rely on if they were
looking to free themselves from The
Continuous decades long Israeli military
occupation all in all in the occupied
West Bank we've seen Palestinians
observe a general strike where
businesses have shut down and people are
still worried about their uh people and
families and friends in the besieged
Gaza Strip afraid of the Israeli retali
ation but some of them were telling me
that Israel already has been bombarding
Palestinians in the besieged Gaza Strip
also here in the occupied West Bank as
Palestinians have laid to rest some of
those who have been killed by Israeli
forces we've seen Israeli military close
down their Palestinian towns basically
isolating them from one another also the
only link for Palestinians here in the
occupied West Bank with the outside
world with Jordan the alen bridge has
been shut down by Israel so that gives
you an idea that even if the situation
is considered relatively calm the
tension is still Brewing nid ibraim Al
jaaz ramala the occupied West
Bank let's bring in Diana Buu now who is
a lawyer and former legal advisor to the
Palestinian Liberation Organization she
joins me live from haer Diana thanks so
much for being on the program as we've
been reporting Israel's knesset has just
declared the nation is officially at War
does that change
anything no not for Palestinians look I
think it's important for this to be put
in its proper context Palestinians have
been living under an Israeli military
dictatorship now for more than 56 years
and the images that we're seeing today
in Israel are the same things that we
Palestinians have been living with each
and every day for the past 56 years
Israel has never held back when it comes
to the use of force and all that it
wants to do now is somehow show that
it's entered into a different phase when
when it comes to Palestinians it's
always had the gloves off it's never had
any restraints and the world has never
forced Israel to to to place any any any
blocks any barriers any anything to the
way in which it deals with Palestinians
this is why we're in this situation
today this is a colossal failure on the
part of the International Community
which has allowed Israel to continue
this brutal occupation for the past 56
years without any accountability that
brings me to my next question about the
International Community we expecting the
United Nations security Council to hold
an emergency meeting in the coming hours
what if anything can the Nations that
are a part of that do to deescalate this
situation I would hope first and
foremost that they would hold up a
mirror to themselves and be blaming
themselves look this is not this is an
occupation in which Israel is occupying
Palestine it's up to the world Community
to put pressure on Israel to end that
occupation it can do so by declaring war
it could do so by putting sanctions on
Israel it's got a number of different
Tools in its hands it has failed to do
so for these 56 years and what Israel
has yet to understand is that it will
never have peace as long as another
people have been denied their freedom as
long as Palestinians are still laying
languishing in refugee camps what's very
interesting about all of this is that
back in
1956 one of the Israeli men Minister
Chief of Staff of the army mosha dean
expressly stated that the that that
Israel should never be angry with what
uh with with any reprisal attacks that
Palestinians conduct against them
because it is Israel that has forced
Palestinians into refugee camps so going
back to the UN it should be looking at
itself and asking itself why it is that
after 75 years Palestinians are still in
refugee camps waiting to go home why it
is that after 56 years we still live
under a brutal military occupation and
it's because they have failed in their
job were you surprised by the Ukrainian
president vadir zelinsky's show of
solidarity to Israel which is the
occupying force in this
instance um not at all you know he's he
has previously stood by Israel he's he
came to the knesset and indicated that
that he was Israel and and uh and that
Russia was was Hamas um he's done this
this time and time again so I'm not at
all surprised by his reaction what does
surprise me however is that people are
surprised that this actually took place
again we may be surprised by the
magnitude of it but after 56 years of of
every day being abused by Israel it
should come as no surprise and I think
that we should never ever underestimate
the desire and will of people to be free
How likely do you think it it is that
this could spill over into a wider
conflict particularly after hezbollah's
strikes from Lebanon today targeting
three Israeli military
positions well that remains to be seen I
think a lot of it depends on what
Israel's next steps are Israel's already
already openly talking about a massacre
in Gaza in fact is already perpetrated
one um they're saying to to gazin to
flee but they know that they've put them
in a cage where they can't flee they've
already attacked the uh a number of
buildings they've already indicated that
they're cutting off fuel electricity and
water supplies these are lifelines this
is illegal under international law so we
know what Israel is planning next it's a
question of what the rest of the region
is now going to do what I do hope
happens is that at least this puts a
break on some of these this
normalization garbage that we've been
seeing over the past three years the
fact that Arab states are closing up to
a dictatorship and closing up to a human
rights abuser and coing up to a country
that has proven that it can't even that
it can't do any anything when it comes
to security uh I hope that this now
comes to an end appreciate your insights
thank you so much Diana Buu a lawyer and
former legal adviser to the Palestinian
Liberation Organization thank
you there's plenty more ahead on Al
jazer we'll bring you more coverage of
the Gaza Israel war these are live
pictures coming from that region do stay
with us